A series of court rulings led to the creation of super PACs and an influx of “dark money” into politics, fundamentally changing how elections work. ProPublica is following the money and exploring campaign issues you won’t read about elsewhere.
TV stations are required to provide data on political ads, but they’re available only on paper by physically visiting the stations. With contributors like you, we’re posting files online.
Injection wells used to dispose of the nation’s most toxic waste are showing increasing signs of stress as regulatory oversight falls short and scientific assumptions prove flawed.
Vast deposits of natural gas have brought a drilling boom across much of the country, but the technique being used, called hydraulic fracturing, is suspected of causing hundreds of cases of water contamination. Now environmentalists and lawmakers are pushing for closer oversight of the gas industry, which is pushing back.
The U.S. war effort in Iraq and Afghanistan has relied heavily on civilian workers, to transport supplies, protect diplomats and other tasks. Though these contractors suffer the same physical and mental scars as troops, they return home without the same support network, often having to fight with insurers for the care they need.
Systemic failures at the country’s banks and mortgage servicers have exacerbated the most severe foreclosure crisis since the Great Depression, making it extremely difficult for struggling homeowners to win a loan modification. Government efforts to limit the damage have fallen woefully short.
As investors left the housing market in the run-up to the meltdown, Wall Street sliced up and repackaged troubled assets based on those shaky mortgages, often buying those new packages themselves. That created fake demand, hid the banks’ real exposure, increased their bonuses — and ultimately made the mortgage crisis worse.
In 1982 amid Guatemala’s brutal civil war, 20 army commandos invaded the jungle hamlet of Dos Erres disguised as rebels. The squad members, called Kaibiles, cut their way through the town, killing more than 250 people. Only a handful survived. One, a 3-year-old boy, was abducted by a Kaibil officer and raised by his family. It took 30 years for Oscar Alfredo Ramírez Castañeda to learn the truth.
ProPublica is tracking the financial ties between doctors and medical companies.
White criminals seeking presidential pardons are nearly four times as likely to succeed as people of color, a ProPublica examination has found.
The 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico was the largest in U.S. history. ProPublica’s coverage focused on BP’s safety and cost-cutting record, the environmental and health effects of the spill, the efforts at cleanup, and how it affected workers and the communities in the region.
Nearly 40 years after Congress created a unique entitlement for patients with kidney failure, U.S. death rates and per-patient costs are among the world’s highest while the biggest for-profit providers flourish.
A year-long investigation into the nation’s 2,300 coroner and medical examiner offices uncovered a deeply dysfunctional system that quite literally buries its mistakes.
In the chaotic aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, NOPD officers shot 11 civilians, five of whom died. Criminal cases have now been brought against some officers, and the federal government is investigating the actions of the police department, which conducted only cursory inquiries into the deadly use of force.
Ten Pakistani militants killed 166 people at multiple sites in Mumbai, India in 2008 in a three-day attack. The investigation centered on one of the most significant and mysterious figures to surface in a U.S. terror prosecution: David Coleman Headley.
The taxpayer-owned mortgage giant made investments that profited if borrowers stayed stuck in high-interest loans while making it harder for them to get out of those loans.
While military statistics show that more than 115,000 soldiers have suffered mild traumatic brain injuries, unpublished research suggests that such injuries have gone undiagnosed in tens of thousands of troops. Even when the injuries are diagnosed, at one of the largest U.S. Army bases, soldiers have had to fight to get the appropriate care.
Opaque redistricting groups are being quietly bankrolled by corporations, unions and others to influence redistricting. They aim to help political allies—and in the process they’re hurting voters.
The Transportation Security Administration plans to install body scanners at nearly every airport security lane in the country by the end of 2014. Scientists have objected to one type of scanner because it uses X-rays which increase the risk of cancer. In an effort to detect explosives hidden under clothing, is the TSA jeopardizing passenger safety?
The government’s stimulus package—nearly $800 billion in new spending and tax cuts—has funded an array of school, highway and other projects. But the money has been a challenge to spend both quickly and effectively, and it has sometimes been vulnerable to waste and fraud.
Foul air from Chinese-made drywall is causing a nightmare for thousands of homeowners, who have complained about severe respiratory ailments and corroded electronics. Several companies that handled the drywall knew there was a problem for two years but didn’t warn consumers or regulators.
Responding to what has been called “The Great Recession,” Congress authorized virtually unlimited spending to rescue the financial system. Hundreds of billions of dollars have gone out the door, but much of it has already been returned. The government stands to lose the most not from the big banks, but Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
California nurses accused of serious wrongdoing have often been left free to practice for years while their cases were being investigated -- with patients unaware of the danger. And the problem goes beyond California: Many health workers who are disciplined in one state simply move to another and start with a clean license.
We are tracking the nuclear disaster in Japan, and looking at questions about nuclear safety in the U.S. and elsewhere.
After Hurricane Katrina, doctors and nurses at Memorial Medical Center in New Orleans made the decision to inject some patients with lethal drug doses. Their actions have raised difficult questions about medical ethics in dealing with the most desperate of circumstances.