A suit reveals how Bank of America knew about big losses at Merrill Lynch before the companies merged but didn't tell shareholders.
A rundown of the various investigations into the deals spawned by the hedge fund Magnetar that helped super charge the financial meltdown.
Whistleblower suits settled as part of the government's $25 billion settlement offer a glimpse at the kinds of behavior that ran rampant in big banks' mortgage operations.
A timeline of SEC charges against Goldman and employees.
Yet another player, Boston&rsquo;s State Street, is scrutinized over Magnetar deals and fined $5 million.
Banker involved in Magnetar deals is one of two recommended for disciplinary action for &quot;alleged misrepresentations in connection with the sale&quot; of a complex security.
A proposed update to the Defense Base Act would provide a federal program for workers' compensation for military contractors killed or injured on the job.
Chicago-based CNA Financial Corp. faces possible investigation after failing to pay death benefits to survivors of Iraqi translators working to help the U.S. mission in Iraq.
More contractors than soldiers died in Iraq and Afghanistan in the first six months of 2010, the first time that contractor deaths have exceeded military ones.
Defense contractors in the field suffer war trauma just as soldiers do&mdash;but don&rsquo;t have the insurance safety net veterans enjoy.
Translators injured helping rebuild Iraq sometimes find the medical benefits they were promised are not forthcoming.
For most of the last decade, Rev. David Hudson has pressed regulators to find out whether his town&rsquo;s water contamination is related to injection wells. He&rsquo;s still waiting.
Gas seeps from underground injection wells and triggers explosions in a Kansas town.
A landmark case in Ohio topples scientific assumptions as wells guaranteed to entrap waste for at least 10,000 years spring a leak in less than 25.
Lax oversight, uncertain science plague program under which industries dump trillions of gallons of waste underground
Tranquilino Casta&ntilde;eda believed his son Oscar was dead, killed by Guatemalan Army commandos at Dos Erres. Oscar believed the lieutenant who abducted him was real father.
The government promises that harmed homeowners will get compensated &mdash;but its programs are confusing. We help navigate them.
We contacted every state to see how they are spending the money they received from the foreclosure settlement. Here&rsquo;s the most comprehensive breakdown available anywhere.
Under the foreclosure settlement with big banks, states got $2.5 billion to help homeowners. But a comprehensive, state-by-state breakdown shows that almost a billion is going to general use.
In which Paul Kiel explains who's to blame for the foreclosure crisis.